how to create a docker container

useful commands for docker operations

1) docker --version

2) docker login

3) docker search 

4) docker inspect 

5) docker pull nginx ---  To pull the required package 

6) docker images --- To list the docker images 

7) docker ps -a --- To list the non-active containers

8) docker ps --- To list the active containers

9) docker create ( Image I'd ) --- To create a container

10) docker start ( container I'd ) --- To start the container

11) docker exec -it ( container I'd ) /bin/bash  --- To enter into the container

 Note:- -it dedicates the Interactive terminal 

12) docker stop ( container I'd ) --- To stop the container

13) docker create --name nginx_srv01 nginx --- To create container with specific name 

14) docker run --name nginx_srv02 nginx --- To create a container, start and log directly into the container. 
                                            It is called as the Attached process.

15) docker run -d --name nginx_srv03 nginx --- To create, start the container and exit without logging into the container

16) docker kill ( container I'd/Name ) --- To kill the container when it is non-responsive forcefully and the data will be erased

17) docker rm ( container I'd/Name ) --- To remove the container 

18) docker rmi ( image I'd ) --- To remove docker images 


Docker Networking:- There are 3 types 

1) Bridge Networking:- The Bridge network creates an internal network with a single docker host container placed
                        within their network can communicate with each other but are isolated from containers not on 
                        the internal network.

2) Host:- When using the host driver the container shares the network stack of the docker host appearing as if the 
           contanier is the host itself from a networking perspective

3) None:- The none driver disables networking for a container making it isolated from other containers


How to create a docker file and its structure 

Creating a Dockerfile is the first step to building a Docker image that contains your application and all the dependencies it needs to run. A Dockerfile is a text file that contains a series of commands to automate the building of a Docker image.

Here's a general guide on how to create a basic Dockerfile and an example for different use cases:

General Structure of a Dockerfile:
A Dockerfile contains several instructions that define how the image should be built. The most common instructions are:

FROM: Specifies the base image to use for your container.
LABEL: Adds metadata to the image, like version or description.
WORKDIR: Sets the working directory inside the container.
COPY: Copies files or directories from the host system to the container.
RUN: Runs commands in the container (e.g., installing packages).
EXPOSE: Exposes a port to allow communication to/from the container.
CMD: Defines the command to run when the container starts.
ENTRYPOINT: Sets the executable that runs when the container starts (similar to CMD but more rigid).
